
Comunicar o que se aprende de uma investigação é essencial para o exercício da atividade científica.

Essa tarefa pode se especialmente desafiadora quando o objecto de investigação é um sistema complexo, constituído por quantidades expressivas de componentes que se inter-relacionam de modo intrincado.

Quase sempre, para tornar a informação a ser transmitida acessível, faz-se necessário elaboração de visualizações, tais como infográficos e fluxogramas que evidenciam os aspectos aprendidos mais relevantes. 

\citeonline{Weintrop2016} lembra que essa habilidade se sustenta em um senso de prioridade que torne clara ao comunicador quais são os elementos proeminentes e quais que podem ser ignorados sem comprometer a integridade da informação.

O autor ressalta que os alunos que tornarem-se experientes nessa prática serão capazes de comunicar o que aprenderam sobre um sistema de maneira a tornar a informação acessíveis aos outros que não conhecem detalhes exatos do sistema do qual a informação foi extraída.





A central challenge when investigating a system is figuring out how best to communicate what you have learned about it.

This is often challenging due to the size and complexity of the system under investigation.

Because systems often consist of many interrelated parts and can include numer- ous interacting elements, conveying information about the system can be difficult, but is also essential for the infor- mation gleaned from the system to be understood and used by others.

Communicating information about a system often involves developing effective and accessible visual- izations and infographics3 that highlight the most important aspects of what has been learned about the system in such a way that it can be understood by someone who does not know all the underlying details.

This practice includes the ability to prioritize features of a system, design intuitive ways to represent it, and identify what can be left out of the visualization without compromising the information being conveyed.

Students who have mastered this practice will be able to communicate information they have learned about a system in a way that makes the information accessible to viewers who do not know the exact details of the system from which the information was drawn.

